What is content marketing? Content marketing is defined as any pieces of content that we can use to convince and convert a potential audience into a fully-fledged customer. We determine this based on a number of factors: by your content personas, by the channels that you're using, and by what your intended business aims are. We're going to look at varying forms of content marketing and how you can apply these to your business to achieve your goals. In terms of the benefits of content marketing, content marketing can help grow your brand or business awareness, can help recruit new brand advocates. It also helps in increasing your search engine optimization and also your traffic to your website, enhancing understanding of exactly what it is that your business has to offer and any unique sales perspectives that your business has, and also helps you generate new business leads and recruit new business interest.
  How to Plan
Social media landscape
The sheer amount of content that is generated every day is enormous. Brands have to compete, not only with other competitor brands, but with influencer content, and also digital publishers.

Creating content that audiences consume most
We’re going to look at various ways of how you can create content that will help you stand out with the newsfeeds. Cutting through the noise is a real challenge for brands and businesses. We break successful content planning into five key stages:

Listen. When we talk about listening, we’re talking about identifying conversations that are already occurring within the social media space; being able to figure out pinpoints for your intended audience, what they’re already engaging with in terms of content; and also, trying to determine any preconceptions about your brand or business that already exist and using your content to alleviate those problems.

Plan. In terms of actual planning, understanding your goals and being able to align your business objectives with your content will help deliver the best return on investment.

Implement. This is the actual creation of your content. So we’re going to explore this in depth and talk about the different content formats that you can utilize to achieve your content marketing objectives.

Measure. We’re going to explain how you can measure the effectiveness of your content, and actually see if it’s delivering on your goals.

Amend. We’re going to go through ways in which you can amend and improve your plan.

  
