Digital technologies are disruptive and have led to a shift in power to the consumer – in particular, the growth of mobile and social media have significantly changed the way consumers interact online. Our responsibility is to allow the consumer to engage with the business online and foster digital communities for our brand. 

Online interaction for consumers is accessible anytime, anywhere, faster and cheaper. Customers are now more informed and have more choice because they can search for and evaluate products/services online before buying. 

Customer's expectations have also changed in that they expect many services to be available online. 

Provide a good digital user experience (UX) by creating the conditions that allow customers to take actions on a website or app which lead to desired results for both customer and the business. This leads to customer satisfaction and drives more valuable actions like contact requests, leads and sales. 

Social media has a lot of influence on consumers with audio visual formats like images and videos, product shots and celebrity endorsements/influencers, peer recommendations, interesting creative experiences, all of which will reflect positively on your business when managed correctly. 

The challenge is to make these interactions intuitive and as simple as possible so more people can complete them without impediment. 

What is Digital? 
Being digitally aware means recognizing the opportunities for Digital to improve the communications, problem-solving, marketing and selling of products/services for businesses and organizations. 

Digital has changed the way that businesses interact with customers, the touchpoints they use, the tone of voice and the experience they provide. Businesses realize that consumers spend a lot of time socializing, researching, browsing and buying online and that they too must be online in order to reach customers them. 

Marketing (promoting products and services to customers) is increasingly shifting from more traditional formats like brochures, print, TV, billboards to digital formats like website, email, social media and web search. 

The customer journey is the steps a potential customer goes through from becoming aware of a need, through to evaluating and buying a product or service. During the process, a typical consumer will evaluate options to solve their need and may take actions like downloading a piece of content or signing up for a trial. 

Digital can speed up and simplify more complex customer journeys by providing the right type of content or touchpoints to the customer at the right time 24/7. Digital can be used at many points across the customer journey (social media, email marketing, search engine marketing and display advertising). 

Each touchpoint can have a specific function, e.g. display drives awareness, social media also drives awareness through engagement and this can help consumers decide if they will take action (consideration) when they see what other people think of your products or brand. Likewise, search engines drive consideration and conversion as the consumer generally sits down in front of their computer or with their mobile device and is likely to take action based on what they have typed into Google. 

The Digital Opportunity
The customer journey touches all departments within the business. There are many places within the business in which digital content is used: website, social media, email, sales & marketing communications. 

Digital encourages collaboration and communication across departments within an organization (e.g. Slack, Google Docs etc.). The adoption of Digital helps businesses grow as they can interact with many more customers, more often, while providing more value and faster response times. 

The advantages/benefits of online interaction for business: it is accessible (generating sales) anytime, anywhere, online interaction is faster, cheaper and records of interaction can be kept.

While Digital provides the opportunity for businesses to ‘disrupt’ traditional models, businesses also need to be proactive and innovate continually with Digital to survive.  

You can use (digital) analytics to better understand the performance of your business (e.g. customer behavior, measurement of key metrics etc.) There are many other internal metrics which can be analyzed such as cost savings, time savings and process efficiencies.
*****
Digital affects employees both directly (employees implementing digital projects, managers/executive team who want to see progress, external) and indirectly. This can result in: tasks being simplified, automated, time saving, cost saving, upskilling, future-proofing of operations and more collaboration. 

There is a shortage of digital talent in organizations worldwide. Digital training is a requirement for employees everywhere and therefore is important for your professional development for the future. 
