How to create TikTok videos: a guide

How to Create TikTok Videos: A Guide

Once you’ve gotten the hang of it, creating TikTok videos is a snap. You have a lot of freedom in what you can create in TikTok given all the filters and sounds available for you to use, and the good thing is that on TikTok authentic content is the most sought after. So even if your content isn’t “perfect” you still have an excellent chance of having your videos get widely seen. This reading is to help you get started on your TikTok journey.

Creating TikToks, Step by Step
1. Set up your account
Before you get to the exciting part of creating and personalizing videos, you’ll want to 
set up your TikTok account
! 

Download the app from your app store of choice and open it up. 

Tap on Create account (iOS) or Sign up (Android) and choose a method to sign up. You’ll have to provide an email address and phone number, which should both be valid since you’ll need them for login recovery if you ever forget your password. 

Try to choose a username and profile photo that reflects your brand or business. 

2. Create a video
Now the fun begins! Time to 
create your first video
.

Start by tapping the + sign at the bottom of the screen. You can use the TikTok camera directly in the app or upload content you’ve already created right from your device.

From here you can add filters or other effects to personalize your video. Tap the check mark, make any final edits on the post page, and then post your video.

If you’re recording from your camera directly in the app, hit Record.

Once you’ve finished recording, tap the check mark. 

Make any additional edits in the post page as you like and post! 

3. Use a filter
The 
Filters
 option is a great way to personalize your videos and show your fun side. Filters are located on the right side of the page. 

Once you’ve recorded or uploaded your video, tap the right side of the page to select which filter you’d like to use. 

To select which filters you’d like to see appear in the app, tap Management.

4. Add an effect
There are actually two ways to 
add effects 
to your TikTok video! 

Add your effect before you record your video
In other words, you can shoot your video with the effect from the beginning. 

Tap on Effects, which is on the left of the recording button. 

You can explore the various effects, and when you're ready to choose one, simply tap it to select. You can preview them before choosing. 

Tap on the recording screen and begin creating your video. 

You can also add your favorite effects by tapping Sticker.

Add an effect is after you’ve recorded your video 
This looks like adding text or stickers or emojis to your video. 

To add text, tap Text, which is at the bottom of the editing screen. 

Choose the color and size of the text you’d like to use and tap Done. You can also move the text around the video to position it more conveniently. 

To add a sticker, tap Stickers, which is also at the bottom of the editing screen. You can select Stickers or Emojis or you can choose from animated GIFs to add to your video. 

Multiple stickers or text can be added to each video. 

To delete the text or stickers you’ve selected, long press the text or sticker you’d like to remove, which would cause the Delete button to appear. Drag the text or sticker until the Delete button turns red, and your item will be deleted.

5. Try the green screen effect
Although technically the 
green screen
 is part of the Effects available in TikTok, it’s one of the most commonly used to set the scene for skits, dances, and other popular types of TikTok videos. 

To use the green screen effect, tap the + to create a video. 

Select Effects as described above and go to the Trending section. From here, look for the #greenscreen icon. 

Choose a photo from your device to use as a background and tap Record. 

Check out 
#greenscreen
 on TikTok for some examples. 

6. Add voice over and voice effects
There are lots of ways to incorporate voice over effects into your videos, and some sound effects even turn into trends and vice versa. 

To add voice over and voice effects on TikTok, record your video in the TikTok app. 

For 
voice over
, tap on the Voiceover microphone on the right side of the screen. 

Check or uncheck the box for “keep original audio” depending on whether you want to use your own voice, or another effect. 

Press the record button to add what you want to say. 

To add another type of sound or voice effect, tap the red checkmark, then tap voice effects. 

Choose which effect you’d like to add, which will add the effect to your video so you can see what it sounds like before posting. 

Tap anywhere on the video to select the effect you’d like to use. 

7. Adjust Settings
There are a variety of settings you can enable and personalize on TikTok. 

Account Privacy Settings
There are several privacy settings TikTok has built into the app, which you can personalize to your comfort level. Here they are and how to adjust them. 

Profile View History
Profile view history 
allows you to see TikTok accounts that have viewed your account, as long as they have this setting turned on. 

To turn this setting on or off, tap Profile on the bottom right.

Tap the 3-line menu in the top right.

Select Setting and Privacy, then Privacy.

Tap Profile views and tap the toggle button to turn this setting on or off. It’s off by default.

Suggested Accounts
To help you find and follow people you might know or accounts you might be interested in, TikTok will 
suggest accounts
 through showing you their videos or through the Find Friends feature. 

Tap Profile in the bottom right.

Tap the 3-line menu icon in the top right to go to your settings.

Tap Settings and Privacy.

Tap Privacy, then tap Suggest your account to others.

Tap the toggle icon next to the setting you'd like to change.

Comments
TIkTok allows you to 
control who can comment
 on your videos with three setting: Everyone (which is only for public accounts), Followers (which is only for private accounts), or Friends only. You can also filter your comments to remove spam or offensive content. 

To choose who can comment on your videos: 

Tap Profile in the bottom right.

Tap the 3-line icon in the top right to go to your settings.

Tap Settings and Privacy.

Tap Privacy, then tap Comments.

Below Who can comment on your videos, choose who you'd like to allow to comment.

To filter your comments: 

Tap Profile in the bottom right.

Tap the 3-line icon in the top right to go to your settings.

Tap Settings and Privacy.

Tap Privacy, then tap Comments.

From here you can choose what kind of filters to apply to your comments.

Private vs. Public Account
With a 
private account
, only people you approve can follow you, view your videos, LIVE videos, bio, likes, and followers lists, and other people won't be able to Duet, Stitch, or download your videos. 

Tap Profile in the bottom right.

Tap the 3-line icon in the top right.

Tap Settings and Privacy.

Go to Privacy.

Turn Private Account on or off.

Teen Privacy and Safety
On top of age requirements and default settings for accounts of people under 18 years of age, TikTok also offers specific 
privacy settings 
for the teen demographic, depending on the region in which the user is. These settings cannot be turned off before the age minimum is reached, and the settings include: 

Private account

Suggest your account

Video downloads

Who can direct message (or DM)  you

Who can Duet and Stitch your videos

Who can comment on your videos

Ads and Data Setting
Requesting Your Ad Data
TikTok allows you to 
request the ad data
 it collects on you.

To do this go to Profile.

Tap the 3-line icon in the top right.

Tap Settings and Privacy.

Tap Privacy, then tap Download your data.

Follow the instructions provided.

Personalized Ad Settings
You can also adjust how the data collected from you affects the ads you see on TikTok. 

To do this, tap Profile in the bottom right.

Tap the 3-line icon in the top right to go to your settings.

Choose Settings and privacy from the options displayed.

Tap Privacy, then tap Ads personalization.

Tap on the Personalized ads toggle to turn your personalized ads setting on or off.
