Building a Sustainable Community
The community manager
YouTube is a social platform. This means that social community management is an integral part of building, growing, and engaging with the viewers who can become potential customers. The community manager needs to understand all the major social platforms that are being used by the audience you are trying to reach.

The value of a community manager
As your audience and community grows, your community manager will have to handle specific tasks that will signal to the viewers that they’re being heard and engaged with. These include:

Giving valuable answers to questions from viewers

Moderating comments and removing offensive comments that alienate your fan base

Analyzing viewer feedback to gather intelligence on what the audience likes and wants to see more of

Looking out for viewers who engage regularly and could potentially become future collaborators on the channel

The importance of responding
Responding to comments is very important from a brand and creator perspective. It’s one of the key activities that helps drive engagement with a desired audience. Just like on Facebook and Twitter, responding to comments is appreciated by the audience.

Answering questions and comments with authority helps you build leadership and expertise on the subject of your content. It also helps you build trust and strengthens relationships with viewers, which encourages them to come back for more. Engaging with your audience also helps increase your visibility and search engine referencing. The more your content is being engaged with, the more YouTube helps it get referenced in search results.

How to respond
When responding to viewers:

Use a personal tone. It’s important to be friendly and adopt a personal tone with your audience

Respond quickly. Don’t wait too long to respond to questions or comments. Sometimes the viewer is ready to buy online, so answering quickly might help you generate a sale.

Identify fans who regularly comment. Keep an eye out for repeat comments by regular fans.

Acknowledge fans by replying and thanking them. Make sure you acknowledge fans regularly and thank them for engaging with you and being great viewers.

Follow fans on their channels or active social profiles. Following highly engaged fans shouldn’t only be done on YouTube. Make sure you do some research and find out what other platforms they’re using and engage with them there.

Increasing loyalty and engagement
You’ll increase loyalty and channel engagement by recognizing community contributions. The comments and suggestions you receive should help you shape your channel’s content and give you ideas for new formats.
